# IASC-2P02 | Stephanie Csiaksz
## About me

My name is Stephanie Csikasz and I am an Interactive Arts and Science major, first year. I started my university career at brock in 2015, and just switched my major last year. My area of interest in digital huminites is in the arts- specifically 3d modeling and animation. My work in digital huminites has always put an emphasis on the artistic side of this major, with strong visuals being an intrinsic part of my work style. I plan to further this in the future by learning how to do animation and 3d art not just 2d still images as I use in my works for this portfolio. While I learn animation, I also plan to strengthen my skills in my current visualization as well, by learning better layouts, colour theory practices, and dynamic artwork to strengthen all projects. With this, I plan to enter the game industry and create assets for videogames. This relates to digital humanities because not only is art an important section of digital humanities, but research in the humanities can be used to further our understanding of how to make art even better, and how to use it effectively in digital spaces. 
## Featured Project

## Collaborative Project
The digital tool Palladio is used to visualize data in various formats. It can be used to show connections inside the data that may not otherwise be obvious and can be interacted with to show data any way the user wants. This project used Palladio to test out how robust and flexible the program is and determine its strengths and weaknesses. The results found Palladio to be a user-friendly tool, through it has a weakness with larger data sets. We produced graphs maps and other forms of data visualization in our project. 

Not all teams can work well together, and this is just a fact of group work. During our project this was a problem we had to face together, and in itself actually enriched my way of academic thinking. Our workflow did not come smoothly on its own due to both time issues and communication. The work I started on was finding useful images for our slides, showing how to use the program shown [here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/blob/Team3/research%20finding/image/gallery.png). Some work was done twice due to our lack of communication, like this graph which went unused by the final version, since i had only done it when i was covering for lack of work from other members. [.](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/blob/Team3/research%20finding/image/Palladio%20Graph.png)
At this point, I had assumed our workflow would just involve each of us claiming a section of the work, like I did shown [here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/commit/b92bb24498866f1333af5e0c653e40983c245038#diff-254ff31b225702599650b96c5e4bd6c4), and then working on it, instead of a leader assigning tasks to each member. This did not work out well and became clear afterwards that a group leader may have helped our collaboration. This helped enrich my digital thinking because I realized how important having a team leader is for some groups, and how a lack of communication can impact group relations. To better approach digital humanities collaboration in the future, I will look into the program we are using better and encourage my team members to become comfortable with any new tools we must use. Because of our approach to digital collaboration, our research agenda was sloppy and empty, resulting in most of the work being done unevenly, and all on the slideshow used to present rather then in the shared environment which may have helped our rocky start. 

## Academic Blog

It is very easy to see digital humanities as an oxymoron, two mindsets and values that act like oil and water when combined. If you look at the two on their own, this would be correct. I find myself agreeing with some arguments against this from Kirschenbaum, Alvarado, and Ramsay, though my conclusions and reasonings are rather fittingly different from them.
[continue reading](blog)


[slideshow](reveal/index.html)
